Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
A weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist. Scott Hansen,
Lawrence Ryan, Let me show number
500. In this episode, Scott
talks about Kyle series of
books entitled. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with, Gedifa
also known as Kyle Simpson, the
author of a number of
really great books about how
I don't know JS. In
fact, you, the audience don't
know JS is that right?
Kyle? None of us really
know Java script, Including myself.
I still don't know it,
but I I'm. I'm trying
to help people embrace that
notion and not be scared
of the fact that there's
always more to learn. That's
a pretty bold title for
a series of books. I
mean, just to basically, you
know, you're walking at Barnes
and noble at a bookstore,
you pass by a book,
there's all sorts of books,
like learn JavaScript for 24
hours and then you pass
the one that just says
you don't know JS. Yeah.
So the title was designed
to go along with the
tone of the book. And
the tone of the book
is to gently challenge developers,
that there are some things
that we assume we understand
because we have been coding
in it for years. I,
I, in my job is
teaching JavaScript. I see developers
that have been at it
for a decade and they've
been successful at rolling out
what we would with air
quotes, say production, quality applications.
But when you push on
understanding of how those things
work, most of them stumble
through like, Oh, I kind
of understand closure, or I
think I know what prototypes
are. So they understand just
enough of the surface to
get things done, which is
the great part about JavaScript.
We can get a lot
done because it is a
very low barrier to entry,
but it's also it's negative
sign. It's the other edge
of the sword because a
lot of developers just stop
there and never go any
further. So the book series,
the trainings, everything I've done
over the last several years
has been dedicated to this
notion that we should take
those tools as seriously. Any
other tool that we'd use,
which means we should push
beyond that surface. We should
go into a deeper level
of understanding. And as I
went through that journey, I
realized that I was in
that boat that I didn't
know JavaScript. And it's, it's
one of those things like
the more, you know, the
more you realize you don't
know. And that was definitely
true for me. So that's
what rang out with the
tone and both, both the
tone and the title of
the series. Is this a
problem that's unique to JavaScript
because JavaScript has such a
low barrier to entry. I
mean, I don't remember people
thinking of doing this about
C I think I'm not
sure I would be prepared
to call it a unique
problem to JavaScript, but certainly
it is much more heavily
weighted in an observable of
the JavaScript community. It, it
surfaces itself and things. When
I ask a question of
a JavaScript audience, I will
ask a question like how
many of you have ever
opened up and read any
part of the JavaScript specification?
And I might in a
room of 30 people get
one, maybe two hands of
people that just don't really
take it that seriously. But
if you ask that same
question of a room full
of C plus plus developers
or Java developers, you'd get
most of the hands up
because developers in those communities
tend to take it more
seriously, understanding how something works,
not just that it works.
So I do think that
there's something interesting about how
approachable JavaScript is. I think
there's an expectation from the
industry that what's really what
we incentivize is rapid develop,
get something done as quickly
as possible. And there's so
many resources of code pens
and just, and other things
like that, that you can
just simply grab a snippet,
tweak it a little bit.
It works and your boss
is happy and you're going
to get raises because you
made your boss happy. So
why, what incentive is there
really to understand how that
thing worked? And I think,
again, I don't think that's
necessarily unique to JavaScript, but
it's certainly much more pronounced
in the JavaScript community. So
then it's not as much
the language or the design
of the languages. It's the
environment that we happen to
live in and the time
that we are in and
the code pens and the
ease of copy paste, the
stack overflow. Yeah, it's, it's
really, it's all of it
from, from, even back in
the early two thousands when
JavaScript was, it was present
in the browser, but it
wasn't really treated as a
serious language. And then we
started to see JavaScript frameworks
treated a little bit more
seriously. As soon as we
saw that, what we saw
was we added a layer
of abstraction where to get
something done in Java script,
you no longer needed to
understand the core mechanisms you
just needed to learn the
jQuery or the prototype or
the dojo or the Yui.
And that's what an entire
set of, you know, maybe
two generations worth of developers
really grew up learning was
learned that part and not
so much worry about the
JavaScript. You were always writing
JavaScript. jQuery is JavaScript, but
you didn't have to understand
what you were writing because
it did a lot for
you that simultaneously helped people
do a lot of very
good, quick coding, but it
also insulated them from needing
to learn. And when there's
no incentive, most developers don't
really circle back and push
themselves to learn deeper. You
know, you just said something
as a throwaway statement that
kind of hit me hard,
like, Oh, you're right. You
said jQuery is JavaScript. Like
what I feel like jQuery
is one of those things
where of course it's built
on JavaScript. And of course,
like, what does that dollar
sign thing mean? And why
are we hanging stuff off
of it? And, but it,
it, it is it's, it
feels like it's such a
complete layer of putty on
top of the language it's
as such, this is a
clear layer of abstraction that
is treated as its own
entity, its own thing. The
interesting thing about jQuery is
that it wasn't, at least
in my observation, obviously not
being part of the core
team, I can't super speak
to it. But from observation
from the outside, jQuery was
more about abstracting, the bad
parts that weren't actually JavaScript
anyway, the bad parts of
the Dom API, that, that
parts of the events, API,
the bad parts of the
Ajax API, those were the
things that were really difficult
to do. And we're really
different cross-browser because those parts
were never actually JavaScript itself.
They weren't part of the
JavaScript specification. So every browser
did them slightly differently and
jQuery was designed to fix
that problem. But in the
process of putting that layer
of putty, as you say
over those ugly parts, it
also created a layer of
abstraction where you, you almost,
you, for example, you use
a function past to a
jQuery method and you don't
even realize that that's a
function expression with its own
set of closure and that
it may be called multiple
times, and it may be
changing variables and its surrounding
scope. You just gloss over
those ideas entirely. When, if
I take that same developer
and take or out of
the picture, and we talk
about a function as a
callback with closure, when we
talk about those principles, they
seem to get it. But
when you put it back
in the context of jQuery,
it's magical to them. That
that's the same thing, but
it really is. It really
is just an application of
an understanding of JavaScript that
people that wrote jQuery really
do understand JavaScript and they
understand it so well that
they created a fantastic library.
I don't really call it
a framework, but a library
on top of JavaScript and
generations worth millions of developers
found JavaScript and front end
web development significantly more approachable
as a result of that
action. I'm a big fan
of those things. What I'm
not a big fan of
is almost the lazy approach
that says because you made
me a tool that makes
it so easy that lets
me off the hook and
I never need to circle
back and go deeper. One
of the analogies that I
use a lot when I'm
talking about like how modern
web development uses, how modern
web development works is that
of driving an automatic car
or a stick shift. And
how deep does your understanding
of the driving of the
car? The getting from point
a to point B go,
as it relates to how
an internal combustion engine works
or how a gearbox works
in, in my relationship, I
happened to be the one
that can drive a stick.
It could have been the
other way. It doesn't matter,
but my wife can't drive
a stick. Moreover, she doesn't
really understand the revving of
the engine and what the
automatic is doing as it
shifts gears and things like
that. She might argue that
she simply doesn't need to
do that because the automatic
transmission is such a perfected
thing that, yeah. Okay. I
mean what, it would do
nothing to enhance her life.
So apply that same thing
to jQuery and JavaScript. Why
should I learn how to
drive a manual stick? Fantastic
analogy. And I actually, I
use a similar one with
re with respect to cars,
but maybe in a simpler
approach. So you've probably heard
and I'm sure the audience
has heard this notion of,
I don't want to go
reinvent my own wheels. Somebody's
already made a really good
wheel, so I'm not going
to reinvent the thing. And
I completely agree you shouldn't
go around wasting time, reinventing
new things, except for the
fact that reinvention is a
really good quote unquote vehicle
for learning. So what I,
the way I put this
as I don't want you
to reinvent your own wheels,
but I do want you
to understand how the wheel
works before you bolt it
onto the car. Simply treating
everything as a black box
means that you don't actually
have mastery over that thing.
It is no more different
than magic. Arthur C. Clark is famous
for his, among other things,
his three laws, but his
third law, which is most
often quoted any sufficiently advanced
technology is indistinguishable from magic.
I like to repurpose that
slightly and say any sufficiently
unlearned technology is indistinguishable from
magic. If you treat it
as a black box and
some sort of voodoo magic
thing happens inside of the
black box, that's okay. But
you need to be aware
of the fact that you
don't have mastery over that
thing, no matter how good
you are at putting that
box in different places. If
you don't know how it
works, you don't have mastery.
So back to the car
metaphor, understanding how a combustion
engine works is not necessary
to drive a car correctly,
but it is necessary to
claim that you have a
mastery over the concept of
what a car is. And
I think that's the difference
between say, for example, and
I hope I'm not painting
with too broad a brush
here, but I think that
maybe some of the difference
between a developer and an
engineer, I like to say
that a developer seeks first
to solve a problem. And
then perhaps later understand the
problem better. Whereas an engineer
may those two and seek
first to understand the problem
and then perhaps solve it
later. So when we are
faced with the pressure, I've
got to get this feature
out. My boss just wants
it to work. We bolt
a wheel onto the car,
which is great because I
want everybody listening to have
great flourishing careers. I want
them to get great jobs.
I want you to keep
being successful in the industry,
but I hope that at
some point you sort of
circle back to how did
that wheel actually work? What,
what were the properties of
it that made it correct?
And in that process, you'll
learn deeper how wheels work
or you'll learn deeper how
a combustion engine works. So
you said that you, you
drive a stick and your
wife drives an automatic I'm
I'm in your wife's, but
I don't drive a stick.
But I do understand the
concept of shifting gears is
changing things inside of a
transmission and moving things around.
And I know, I know
that the automatic is doing
those things for me. So
I think I have an
understanding enough of this black
box that it isn't a
black box magic As with
all good analogies, we should
stretch it. Absolutely two things.
So this is perfect. But
one could argue though, that
is the intent of the
driver to get from point
a to point B or
is the intent of the
driver to create new and
more innovative cars. Yeah. And
I would argue that if
you're just trying to drive
from point a to point
B, there's no scenario where
you need to care about
wheels. You just need to
know it's an effective car,
has three wheels, it's got
five. It doesn't matter. It's
driving and I'm getting to
point B. Yeah. So again,
let's keep stretching that scenario
when something goes wrong with
your car and you have
absolutely no idea how the
car works. It's just simply
a black box. Then you
are at the mercy of
taking it to some other
person who is an expert
in saying, please just fix
it for me. Right. And,
and that's a problem. If
you call yourself an engineer,
if you have something that
you literally have no clue
what to do. I, I,
I tell my students all
the time, if you do
not know how a piece
of code works, then you
have no hope of understanding
why it broke or fixing
it. You'll never accidentally exceed
your own understanding of this
thing. So I think it's
really important for us as
engineers to take some responsibility,
to understand. So I don't
fix my own cars, but
I think I have an
understanding enough of them that
if there's a problem, I
know, Oh, that's a problem
with my brakes or, Oh,
that's a problem where my
transmission transmission is messed up.
It's not shifting correctly so
that I'm not completely at
the mercy of somebody else.
So in that stretched metaphor,
I am using the tools
available to me. I E
car mechanics shop, who I
know has the expertise to
do something that I don't
have expertise on, but I
still come to the table
with enough of an understanding
that I'm not completely lost.
And I think that's where
this cements in my mind
that this isn't fantastic fricking
metaphor as metaphors go. This
is solid because you know,
you roll into the mechanic
shop and you don't understand,
you know, even a cursory
understanding of how your car
you are at the mercy
then of that specialist, which
I think we've all found
ourselves in those situations and
building applications where we go,
we go, as far down
the call stack, as our
knowledge allows us to, we
hit that one limit where
it's like, all right, I'm
a, I have no idea
what's happening. I sure hope
that I trust my consultant,
that they won't lie to
me To circle back to
software, just to kind of
make this a little more
concrete for the listener. If
we observe something about the
history of programming, we know
that programming languages have been
organized into roughly into generations.
So the first generation software
was the machine language. The
second generation software was assembly.
Third generation was the C
programming and the variance of
C language, the fourth generation,
which is where a lot
of our listeners will be
playing in the fourth generation
of languages or higher level
programming languages of which JavaScript
is a great example. There
are others, of course, and
then even a fifth generation
on top of that, more
natural language, things like SQL
or things like that. So
if you're playing at the
fourth level, the fourth generation
of programming languages, as many
people do, I think to
call yourself a true engineer
of that level, if that's
your chosen level, maybe you're
deeper in the stacker or
whatever, but if you choose
the fourth generation, I think
you need to understand all
of how the fourth generation
works. So if you use
an angular or an Ember
or backbone or whatever, you
should be able to open
up the source code of
every one of those frameworks
and know how every single
line works so that you
make proper decisions about it.
You should also have a
good working knowledge of the
generation below. So if you're
working at the fourth generation,
you should be a master
of the fourth generation and
a working knowledge of the
one below. And I think
that's what makes somebody a
solid engineer. So I don't
know all of the details
of how assembly works, but
I have a working knowledge
of that and have a
working knowledge of C so
that when I make a,
a, a language level decision
in JavaScript, I do have
some intuition about what it's
going to do about allocating
and allocating memory. Even though
I don't have to do
that in my own program.
That's what I think makes
a good engineer. That is
that's really good. I like
that a lot. There are
those multiple levels and you
have to ask yourself how
far down the call stack
or the layers of abstraction
that you want to go.
It's funny that you're, you're
giving me all this knowledge
and information, because I think
that we're very similar in
the way that we express
ourselves. I've used the Arthur C. Clark
metaphor before, except I've used
it to express a sufficient,
a sufficiently abstract layer of
abstraction is indistinguishable from magic.
And the, the, the example
that I gave once, and
I think the listeners are
probably sick of hearing. This
was that one time my
wife lost her wedding ring
down the drain and her
working knowledge of how the
plumbing works is starts at
the faucet and ends at
the drain. But my working
knowledge ends underneath it, the
little bendy thing, the trend,
and then it disappears into,
into a mist. So when
I pulled it out of
the bendy thing out of
the trap, she thought that
was a miracle. She thought
that was amazing because in
her mind it was at
the sewage treatment plant. It
was already there. Yeah. There
was nothing to me. That's
the kind of feeling that
you get when you have
a problem, you, you think
you're an engineer and then
you meet someone who does
have a working knowledge of
that layer, that one layer
of abstraction farther down. And
you're like, that's amazing whether
they opened like, you know,
wind DBG or some core
level debugger, or whether they're
looking at some hex code.
And it's like watching someone
watched the matrix and you're
like, how do you understand
what all those falling symbols
mean? Right? Those are a,
but it also, isn't something
that you, you can learn
those things like it may
seem scary now, but then
you learn that layer and
then it's not scary anymore.
That's exactly right. And I
really think that it pays
off in the long run
to have those deeper understandings
of stuff. It's not to
say that those abstraction layers
that are built within the
generations are bad. Abstractions are
not bad. They're very good
and very effective tools. What's
bad is when they're completely
painted and some opaque color.
And you never look under
the hood. Hey folks, I
wanted to take a moment
to tell you about Reagan
and their new product called
pulse. Reagan is an error
and crash reporting software provider
and their new product pulse
to realtime user monitoring product.
It gives you performance data
and user insights. Lets you
understand exactly what's happening when
users interact with your software.
So you're never left guessing.
Reagan provides you with the
answers to your performance questions
and they've found over 10 billion
that's billion with a B
bugs and customer apps with
their crash reporting product. And
now Reagan will help you
understand application quality. Like no
one else over 30,000 developers
worldwide, can't be wrong. I
use Reagan and all the
time and I enjoyed it
very much. You can try
it out today with a
no risk 30 day free
trial start improving your software
quality immediately try Reagan for
free today@reagan.io. Every time I
look under the hood and
at that, well let me,
let me say this. I'm
always blown away by the
amount of stuff there is
to learn though. And this
is where it gets a
little bit overwhelming. Cause we
are kind of sitting at
the top of the, of
the mountain here and underneath
the iceberg below is really
huge. There's a, a really
talented debugger at Microsoft and
her name is Tess Fernandez
and she does those kinds
of bugs that are so
obscure that they make their
way up. Like first level,
second level, third level of
support, right? She's at the
peak of, of the support.
She writes these blog posts
that are like, you know,
like CSI level of debugging,
you know like where they'll,
you know, a fingerprint leads
them all the way down
the rabbit hole. And it's
just like, Oh my God,
how'd you know that, aye,
it's completely overwhelming. How do
you choose what to know?
You said a good working
knowledge. When I read Tessa's
posts, I am left overwhelmed
with how much I don't
know about how things work.
Yeah. So I guess maybe
the difference between me and
somebody else that may be
listening would just be that
when I was fascinated by
somebody that, that knew something
that I didn't, instead of
just taking that at face
value, that presented me with
a question. So I followed
that question and maybe what
was different is that, that
answer to that question, asked
another question and instead of
stopping and taking that one
at face value, I just
kept asking more questions when
I was dealing with JavaScript.
And I decided to write
that book series, the, you
don't know, JS series. I
started with a basic set
of principles that I understood,
but I didn't know why
they worked that way. I
just knew how they worked
and I wanted to know
why they worked that way.
So I asked, how does,
why does this work that
way? What does this work
in that way? Why does
this statement do that? Why
does closure work? Why does
the object prototype chain work?
And each one of those
questions lead to another set
of questions and I just
didn't stop. And to, to
be honest to this day,
I haven't stopped. I keep
going down those trails and
asking more of those questions,
But devil's advocate a little
bit. And I hate that
term. And I don't like
being devil's advocate. Don't wouldn't
that indicate that you either
have a lot of time
on your hands or a
job that enables you to
have that level of curiosity.
I think that it might
be argued that there are
people who are under the
gun who don't have the
eight hours to put their
head down and learn how,
you know, object prototypes were.
Yeah. Unquestionably. And I've said
this publicly on many occasions,
unquestionably, I have an uncommon
level of privilege among my
peers that I've had the
opportunity over the last four
years to shift my career.
Prior to that, I spent
12 years as developer. So
I do get, and in
small and big companies consultancies,
all that stuff. I do
get the pressures of those
things. And I, I feel,
I like to believe that
I haven't lost track of
that. I do understand the
pressures that exist there. And
I have the privilege that
four years ago, I decided
to go independent and teach
and teaching affords me that
privileged to benefit learning because
you can't teach. If you
don't learn and you can't
learn if you don't teach.
I think so. There's unquestionably
that level of privilege there.
But I would, I would
almost fall back on, on
kind of a, a silly
statement that I know has
been made many, many times
before me, but you might
say, well, what if I
don't have time to learn
this thing? And that's the
question on everybody's mind? What
if I don't really have
time to learn it? What
if you don't have time
not to learn it? I
mean, my, my approach here
is I'm trying to help
people learn, not just for
the sake of being an
academic, but because in the
deeper learning you become a
more effective engineer and it
takes you less time to
fix problems. When you understand
the code first and you
better more performance code the
first time when you have
the instincts based upon actual
understanding and not just based
upon well, I've stubbed my
toe and enough of these
places that I know, not
where to walk. You know,
I know where not to
walk. If you can turn
on the lights and understand
the layout of the room
and not just stuff, you
know, stumble around, you will
effectively do that path better.
So a path to being
a better engineer inevitably involves
being a path to being
a better learner and to
be a learner means to
also, you don't know something
until you can teach other
people. So teaching through whether
that's writing about things or
going to local meetups or
being a conference speaker or
being a book author, whatever
those things are, learn something
a little bit deeper. And
that doesn't, that doesn't mean
that learning should ever get
in the way of doing
your job. You've got to
get a paycheck. You got
to be a doer, but
take those extra moments wherever
you can find them and
say, I don't want to
leave that thing behind. I
want to circle back and
figure it out more deeply.
And that is a, that
is a conscious decision that
I am hearing you encourage
people to make. Not only
is not only a conscious
decision, but a challenge that
I put to everyone to
say, doesn't, doesn't, isn't that
what distinguishes us? Isn't that?
What will keep you fresher
in the industry? If you
have that uncommon level of
asking why and taking and
making the sacrifice to go
and learn something a little
bit more deeply than you
understood, you may not have
to go write an entire
book about it, but you
should go and learn it
more deeply than what you
understood the first time you
did it. So let's, let's
challenge ourselves a little bit
in this discussion to understand
that people who are listening
might be hearing words like
sacrifice, challenge yourself. And they
may be thinking that Kyle
is asking them to stay
up late and spend less
time with their kids. And
that they're, they're not really
an engineer. If they really
like to go hiking at
five o'clock and at five
Oh one, they like to
punch out are I think
that maybe a one solution
would be to force your
bosses to give you some
training time. Like I used
to take Friday afternoons from
noon to five and just
read and study. And if
my boss challenged me, I
challenged them back and I
said, listen, I need to
do this. And then you
get into those kinds of
discussions with your boss. Like,
well, it's on your own
time for training. It's like,
well, you want me to
be effective? And then you,
not, everyone has that luxury.
How do we enable people
to do that? I think
that's an absolutely fantastic point.
And I'm glad you redirected
because I don't want anything
that I'm saying to be
construed as I'm trying to
take you away from your
families. I have a family,
have a wife and kids,
and my family is incredibly
important to me. And, and
the work that I do
has me on the road
a lot. I'm away from
them when I'm home, I'm
very dedicated to my family.
So I completely agree and
sympathize with people that want
to do that. And even
if you don't have a
family, if it's just that
you like to mountain bike,
that's great. I want people
to, to have those lives.
So I should explain some
context newly in the, of
head of curriculum with maker
square, which is an engineer
training school. Our job is
to take people that understand
some programming and make them
super highly effective engineers that
get jobs. And so we
work very closely with developers,
not just to teach them
the raw skills of JavaScript
programming, but we work with
them to understand what it
means to be an effective
employee in the workplace. And
the challenges that I give
are the people that graduate
from our school are things
like when you get that
job two or three weeks
in after you've kind of
learned the lay of the
land, you should go to
your boss and say, would
you let me do a
Brown bag lunch once a
month or once a quarter
with my fellow coworkers? And
I'll take something, I'll take
the initiative to learn something
on company time that relates
to the work that we're
doing as a team, I'll
learn it more deeply. And
then I will present what
I've learned to the rest
of my team members. That's
an in context job, you're
going with the flow of
your job. And you're doing
exactly what you said. Scott,
taking time, not away from
mountain biking or from your
family, but taking the time
at your job and using
it, I think in, in
ways more effectively, because somebody
needs to do that. Somebody
needs to challenge everybody to
be better at learning and
using, even if it's like
the code review process, which
if you're listening, I think
you should have a culture
of code review at your
company. I'm very firmly in
that, in that boat. I
think code review is really
important. The code review, again,
is another tool for learning.
You set the bar high
for what coach should be,
and when someone more junior
to you submit some code
and a code review, and
maybe they make some mistakes
or they use something in
a slightly more naive way.
Instead of just pushing that
back and say, rejecting a
code review, it's an opportunity
to teach so that everybody
is learning. You can do
that within the flow of
your job without ever having
to give up those free
moments. Did I sacrifice time
away from my family? I
absolutely did, but I'm not
saying that you have to
do that to be engineer.
I'm simply saying you should
have the courage to take
this challenge to say, how
can I learn more effectively
through the job that I
already have? Yeah. I think
it is a challenge to
have that courage, especially with
one isn't a new job,
or if one is a,
you know, a junior person
to build themselves up to
have that, that audacity or
that privilege to say, you
know, Hey boss, you need
to let me do this,
But, but in the, in
the same vein while that
does take courage, it's also,
it's also kind of a
measuring stick for the position
and the job and the
team that you're on because
I believe that a really
good company and a really
good boss to work for
would fall out of their
chair. Excited if they had
an employee that said, I
want to be uncommonly good
at this, I want to
learn more deeply. And I
want to help everybody around
me understand things more deeply
so that we're more effective.
That's lower total cost of
ownership for our software when
we write things the right
way, the first time. And
if your boss didn't get
excited about that, if they
said, nah, it doesn't really
matter to us. That's a
measuring stick by which you
can gauge. Are, am I
going to be effective here?
Is there another team? Is
there another way that I
can be more effective somewhere
else? I think that's what
will make better industry. I
think we can change industry
from the inside out by
getting more and more people
hooked on using our jobs
and our job functions as
a vehicle for learning. Very
cool. Very cool. And as
we end, help me understand
the scope of these books
are these full-sized books. They
seem like, like what I
buy a 300 page book
on scope and closures or
these booklets. Give me a
sense of the, what I'm
biting off when I decide
to buy one of these
books on you don't know
Jay. Yes. Yeah. That's a
fantastic question. So the book
series, there are six total
books in this series. The
very first book is called
up and going and that's
designed for somebody who's never
done any programming before to
literally get up and going
and within the context of
what JavaScript does. So I
talk about functions and comments
and variables and values. The
book series then launches into
the main meat with scope
and closures and this an
object prototypes and types and
grammar and coercion. Those books,
each individual book is ranges
between 102 hundred pages in
length. So they're, they're shorter
than your average tech book
at three or 400 pages
each in total six books,
there's 1100 pages. So there's
plenty of information there, but
they're in smaller bite sized
chunks. And the goal for
that was I always, whenever
I was learning development, years
back, I would always go
to a bookstore and buy
a book that was like
1200 pages because there was
one or two chapters in
that book, one or two
topics that I really wanted.
So I buy the whole
book just for that one
piece. I didn't want anybody
to be facing that challenge
with my set of books.
If the thing you really
want to understand now is
scope and closure. You should
be able to buy that
100 page book and just,
and have just that to
digest. And many people say
that they can get through
one of these books in
this series in an extended
weekend, you know, worth of
time. So the books are
divided that way on purpose.
They're very focused on just
that one topic taken in
whole. I think they represent
a complete dissertation if you
will, if I can be
so bold as to call
it that on what Java
script, the core languages and
the appropriate ways to apply
it. So the sixth and
final book in the series
is on the new stuff
that just landed with ESX,
as well as peering beyond
telling a narrative about where
JavaScript is headed in its
evolution in the future. So
you start from the very
beginning and by the end,
I think you really do
have that solid foundation about
what Java script is. And
you know, then the things
you don't know and the
things you need to learn
better, Very, very cool. And
I will make sure to
put links to this stuff
in the notes and people
can read these books online
for free, but certainly I'll
have links where you can
go and buy those books.
And it's also worth pointing
out that the up and
going book, the ebook format
is free, which I think
is a very nice thing
for you to have done
for beginners support. We can
go and get that right
away. Yeah, that's true. The
entire book series is actually
available for free on the
GitHub repo. You don't know
js.com redirects to the GitHub
repo where all the books
were written for free. So
you can read the entire
1100 page series for free.
They were also professionally edited
and published through a Riley.
And as Scott said, as
you said, Scott, the first
book of the series, the
up and going one, because
that's the one where I
want to be able to
get more people in. It's
the bridge to getting you
into JavaScript. The ebook form
itself, the edited ebook form
published form is free. And
the print version is I
think four 99. So I
specifically said, I don't want
any royalties from this, make
it as cheap as you
can at costs so that
as many people can have
access to that book as
possible. Very, very cool. Well,
it's been just a joy
chatting with you today. I
really appreciate your time. Thanks.
It's a super huge honor.
I have listened to the
show a few times before.
It's an honor to be
here. So thanks for listening.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.